---
title: Your first route
---

# Your first route

Densky has a file-based routing which means that you just need to create a file to get your first route.

## Simple route

All the routes must be in the `src/routes`, to make your own route **create a file** on there.

::file-tree{name=routes}
  :tree-file[_index.ts]{diff=added}
::

```ts [src/routes/_index.ts]
export function GET() {
    return new Response("Hello World");
}
```

Once you have written your route, use the densky-cli `dev` command:

```bash
densky dev
```

## Making dynamic route

To set a dynamic route you need a `$` at start of the route filename. For example:
::file-tree{name=routes}
  ::tree-folder{name=user diff=added}
    :tree-file[$id.ts]{diff=added}
  ::
  :tree-file[_index.ts]
::
```ts [routes/user/$id.ts]
import { type HTTPRequest } from "densky";

export function GET(req: HTTPRequest) {
    const userId = req.params.get("id");
    return new Request(`Viewing user ${userId}`);
}
```

## Making POST entry

Make a new **HTTP method** entry is very easy, for this example we will create a the `_index.ts` file in `routes/user` and it will create a new user using the `POST` method.

::file-tree{name=routes}
  ::tree-folder{name=user}
    :tree-file[_index.ts]{diff=added}
    :tree-file[$id.ts]
  ::
  :tree-file[_index.ts]
::

```ts [routes/user/_index.ts]
import { type HTTPRequest } from "densky";

export async function POST(req: HTTPRequest) {
    const userData = await req.raw.json();
    return new Request(`Viewing user ${userId}`);
}
```

In the code above you can see a couple of new things.

#### 1. `async` keyword

You can export methods on the routes as `async function`, in this case it is required to use the method at the below tick.

#### 2. `req.raw.json()` What the hell is that?

Densky use a request wrapper to extend the functionalities, but **for now** the request data isn't handled and it should be used with the raw request.

 Okey, What is a raw request? The request wrapper contains a property named `raw` which its type is [Request](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request). See more on [API Documentation](/api/http/HTTPRequest)

